let's turn to the ha now where South
Africa is asking the un's highest court
to instruct Israel to stop its offensive
in Rafa these are live pictures from the
international court of justice the
hearing is the latest intervention by
the South African government in its
legal case against Israel it says as
well as direct military attacks Israel
is starving Palestinians in Gaza by
obstructing access to deliveries of food
Fuel and medicines Israel has insisted
it is acting in accordance with with
international law it has dismissed the
South African case as a baseless blood
Lial South Africa's legal team have been
outlining their case and have accused
Israel of breaching the Court's previous
orders with impunity Israel is
escalating its attacks on Palestinians
in Gaza and in so doing is willfully
breaching The Binding orders of this
court Israel similarly breaches The
Binding resolutions of the United
Nations security Council
erroneously believing from the lack of
counter
measures by the International Community
that it is exempt from having to respect
international law we've heard assurances
that Israel was doing everything in its
power to avoid civilian deaths as it
exercised its claimed right of
self-defense we've heard
boasts that Israel's Army is the most
moral Army in history
and we've heard denials that there is
famine in Gaza for
months people particularly in the west
have appeared unwilling to accept that
the accusations are true how could
people who look like us and sound like
us possibly engage in anything like
genocide we'll listen into more of those
proceedings in just a moment first let's
get the latest from our correspondent
Anna hollan who is at the ha and
following all the developments there for
us Anna welcome to you just remind us
first of all why South Africa is
bringing this
case any country that's a member of the
genocide convention has a responsibility
to ensure there are no violations of
that con uh convention that's one but uh
secondly South Africa sees parallels
between aparte South Africa and the
situation that Palestinians in Gaza are
facing right now we're an hour into this
hearing
uh and as you heard there South Africa's
legal team have been laying out their
arguments they're basically asking for
the judges here at the un's highest
court the world Court as it's often
referred to to issue three emergency
measures you can't hear any protesters
this time round although it's the fourth
time uh South Africa has made this
request to the court for an order for
Israel to cease hostilities uh and to
immediately withdraw um but that's
because this hearing was held so uh so
quickly uh which is an indication of how
seriously the judges here are taking
this so as well as uh asking the court
to order Israel to immediately withdraw
from Rafa um the South African legal
team have said that uh un investigators
humanitarian Aid organizations and
journalists must be allowed in to ensure
the provision of food water medical
supplies but also uh so that if there
are any violations of the genocide
convention taking place that evidence
can be gathered for any future trials
they've also asked the judges to order
that Israel report back to the court
within uh a week on how it's
implementing any measures I just want to
give you some of the detail though that
we've heard in court um from the lawyers
for South Africa so uh lawyer vau Jones
said uh vau low said Israel's actions in
Rafa are part of the end game this is
the last step in the destruction of Gaza
uh they also talked about aparte and
also made a link between what's
happening now in Rafa and what happened
in serin in so far as Rafa is being seen
as the last safe zone for Palestinians
in Gaza and South Africa says if Rafa
isn't protected it will make it very
difficult if not impossible to rebuild
Gaza and preserve Palestinian life in
Gaza now and in the future Israel of
course we should say will have a chance
to defend itself in court tomorrow H it
will also have two hours um Israel's
legal team is in in court uh you can
probably hear the rumble of engines
outside uh the the peace Palace now
waiting to take people away this is a
hugely contentious case it's probably
the most sensitive case the icj has ever
dealt with which is why it's generating
so much attention and South Africa has
said there is no other option um this is
is the Last Hope and that's why they are
applying to judges here at the icj to
issue these uh emergency measures to
protect the Palestinian life in in Gaza
okay Anna thank you well let's listen in
now to those proceedings a lawyer for
South Africa is making further arguments
story of every Palestinian who is
suffering at the hands of Israel's
Relentless genocidal
campaign indeed this court has held in
Bosnian
genocide that
quote it is
sufficient to examine those facts that
would illuminate the question of intent
or illustrate the claim by the applicant
of a pattern of Acts committed against
members of the group such as to lead to
an inference from such pattern of the
existence of a specific
intent end
quote in these submissions I show show
that Israel's genocidal acts against
Palestinians in Rafa form part of a
continuing escalating pattern of conduct
across
Gaza that provides persuasive and
consistent evidence of Israel's
genocidal
conduct in light of these new facts
South Africa seeks an order from the
court the only order
that will clearly protect what is left
of Palestinian life in Gaza it seeks an
explicit order that Israel cease its
militaries military
activities not only in Rafa but
throughout
Gaza turning then to the genocidal
acts in my remaining time before you I
will highlight the following features of
the genocidal campaign by
Israel
first Israel has continued to kill
Palestinians in Gaza including women and
children at an alarming
rate second as a result of Israel's
Onslaught Palestinians in Gaza are
facing what the under Secretary General
of the UN has described as the worst
humanitarian crisis he had seen for more
than 50
years
third Israel's systematic targeting and
bombardment of hospitals and medical
facilities and its throttling of
humanitarian Aid has pushed gaza's
medical system to
collapse fourth Israel's direct
attack and Siege of gaza's biggest
hospitals has led to the uncovering of
mass Graves evidencing Israeli massacres
of Palestinians seeking
shelter and medical
treatment
finally most recently Israel has
intensified its attacks in the north
while pressing on with its rougher
offensive leaving displaced Palestinians
nowhere safe to go
I will take these in
turn the first feature of the genocidal
conduct
killing since South Africa appeared
before the court on 11 January
2024 at least
11,500 Palestinians have been directly
killed by
Israel the majority of these casualties
are of women and children in an enclave
where nearly 50% of the population are
children this Onslaught has occurred
despite the binding orders issued by
this court and The Binding Security
Council
resolution on 25 March
2024 demanding an immediate ceasefire
for the month of Ramadan
in fact as UNICEF pointed out a double
digigit number of children were killed
within hours of that
resolution two mothers and four children
are killed every
hour unra head Philipe lazarini
says there are no words left that can do
any justice to the people people of
Gaza the numbers of dead and injured
defy
comprehension at least 35,000
Palestinians killed and 79,000 injured
with 10,000 more reportedly missing or
under the
rubble up to 1.7 million
displaced most multiple
times and More than 70% of all housing
stock in Gaza and more than 80% in parts
of Northern Region damaged or
destroyed that's where we are going to
leave proceedings at the international
court of justice just a reminder that
Israel will have its turn to respond
tomorrow if you'd like to continue
watching that coverage just head to our
websites you'll find our live page on
the case and there you can watch the
court proceedings live and uninterrupted
or you can watch them in their entirety
as well that's